hey i'm rob from skis.com and
snowboards.com joined today by jeff from
POC jeff thanks for joining us thanks
for having me we're talking about the
POC skull Orbach axe new helmet was a
midseason release for 1314 but really
new for the 1415 season race helmet
really cool changes to this helmet from
years past what's kind of the first
thing that jumps out to you with a well
the skull series has been around for a
while as one of the top race helmets
around and fi is put in some new
regulations and we've made a helmet to
match up with that so this is a full FIS
approved helmet one of the key
additional ingredients to it is this
large panel on the front which on this
helmet on the skull X is a full expanded
polypropylene EPP piece that's multi
impact and the idea is that if racers
hitting gates multiple times this will
still be able to rebound and at the end
of the season still be able to offer all
the protection and a fall that's neat
which is huge because racers probably
put their helmets through more garbage
all season than any other skier out
there the gate fashion is really tough
on helmets and that's what FIS was
trying to prove hit there to add that
security to it they say that it's like
to football NFL football players hitting
each other at full speed is what hitting
the gate is each time so a couple other
neat new features on its a little bit
different shape but also new ear
chambers that improve hearing by
improving hearing that helps to improve
the balance of the skier when they're at
speed as well it's full impulse impact
throughout the whole helmet as well as
having the big panel up on the top for
sure and then also kind of a small
feature and something that maybe goes
unnoticed to a lot of people but a liner
that you can take out wash clean all
that kind of stuff again comes with two
liners right
this one comes with one this comes with
one right the comp comes with two right
get to that in a second but yeah it's
great you leave it in your bag for a
while and it gets pretty stinky sure so
you can take it out and wash it that
makes it a lot nicer as well definitely
so then I guess the natural transition
they're moving up from there into the
orbit cop you're getting some extra
features though well the big difference
is the comp is just what it sounds like
it's it's the helmet that you saw in the
Olympics this year all the World Cup
racers use the comp it to obviously is
FIS approved the big uptick from it it's
got a full Kevlar aramid penetration
barrier throughout the entire helmet
it's still the EPB multi impact but also
this panel here is what we call VPD
which is our burial variable elastic
dough which is we use it in all our pads
and it feels soft and supple when you
bend it until it gets an impact and then
it turns rock-hard so it's one step up
and protection on the front of the
helmet from from the gay fashion perfect
and so now again this one now it does
come with two liners right there wash
liners swap them out very cool really
exciting helmets for this year for all
your racers out there the the POC skull
or big axe and the skull orbit comp Jeff
thanks for joining us absolutely thank
you for joining us on skis.com and
snowboards.com